[ENH] adding release guidelines (#267)
bids-standard/bids-specification: Release_Guideline.md

> This document captures guidelines to follow when considering a new release of the BIDS specification.

Reviewer: A little formatting helps make things look cleaner.

```suggestion
# Release Guidelines

This document captures guidelines to follow when considering a new release of the BIDS specification.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Background
```

BIDS has generally followed a semantic versioning (semver) approach.
The canonical semver text can be found at [https://semver.org/](https://semver.org/), and an adaptation to documents can be found at [https://semverdoc.org/](https://semver.org/).

> A specification falls somewhere between these two, so we should consider carefully the rules.

Reviewer 2: "So we should carefully consider the rules" doesn't make sense to me, here. I'm really not sure what "the rules" are. Do you mean that what you're laying out below is trying to reconcile the two ?

Reviewer: This was actually just a note from me to Franklin...
```suggestion
A specification falls somewhere between these two, as documentation does not require
backwards compatibility, while software has notions of bugs and features which do not
map to the reasons for updating a specification.
```

In both cases, edition numbers are specified as MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, and the difference is in the rules for incrementing each edition number.

> In BIDS, we have considered a major release version (the next being 2.0.0) to indicate backwards incompatible changes, and minor and patch releases must be backwards compatible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In BIDS, we have considered a major release version (the next being 2.0.0) to indicate
backwards-incompatible changes, while minor and patch releases must be backwards compatible.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Guidelines

```

> Once a decision for a release has been established, the rules of [decision-making](DECISION-MAKING) govern the mechanism of doing the release (i.e., waiting 5 business days to merge).

Reviewer: Broken link, excessive line length, italicized *i.e.*.

```suggestion
Once a decision for a release has been established, the rules of [decision-making](DECISION-MAKING.md)
govern the mechanism of doing the release, *i.e.*, waiting 5 business days to merge.
```

> **When it is time for a minor (1.X) release?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Minor (1.X.0) releases
```

> This release should be reserved for when a modality (BEP) has been merged into the specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A minor release should be made when a BEP (BIDS Extension Proposal) has been merged into the
specification.
```

> Special cases can override this.

Author: ```suggestion
Special cases can override this and it is up to the BIDS Maintainers Group to decide this given approval by the BIDS Steering Group.
```

> Special cases can override this and it is up to the BIDS Maintainers Group to decide this given approval by the BIDS Steering Group.

Reviewer 2: Given that we're still awaiting approval on the governance PR, maybe we should just be vague here and say that something like :

```suggestion
Special cases can override this at the discretion of BIDS Maintainers.
```

Unless you want to wait and merge this after governance !

Reviewer 3: I think this should be merged before governance and then revised and iterated upon :-)

+1 for your suggestion to remain a bit vague

Reviewer: Sorry, was going through top-to-bottom, so I already suggested something that's a bit more prescriptive than restrictive, which I think fits fairly well with what you're getting at, @emdupre, but needs a slightly different follow-up.

```suggestion
The BIDS Maintainers have discretion to identify other cases justifying a minor release.
```

Author: +1 merging this before the governance. The BIDS Maintainers can be changed to BIDS Maintainers Group at that time. What further follow up did you have in mind? It flows nicely from the minor to patch.

**When it is time for a patch (1.X.X) release?**

> This release can occur more frequently and in a number of cases:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This release can occur more frequently and in a number of cases, not limited to the following examples:
```

> **When it is time for a patch (1.X.X) release?**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Patch (1.X.Y) releases
```

> - A modality field has changed with the validator reflected in this change.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- A modality field has changed and the [bids-validator](https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-validator) has been updated to reflect this change.
```

> This release can occur more frequently and in a number of cases, not limited to the following examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Patch releases will generally be more frequent, and indicate less significant changes to the specification.
The following is a non-exhaustive set of justifications for a patch release:
```

> - Additions or updates to the resources around BIDS (i.e. BEP update)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Resources around BIDS have been added or updated (e.g., BEP updates)
```

> - Specification rendering has been enhanced

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- The rendering of the specification has been enhanced
```

Author: ```suggestion
- The rendering of the [specification](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) has been enhanced
```

> - Use case motivated changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Author: curious why a use case motived change not be a patch release rationale? 

I am thinking of a case where the change can be useful to the specification and good to get it into the stable release

Reviewer 3: Line 20 in this PR reads: 

> This release can occur more frequently and in a number of cases, not limited to the following examples:

thus, the "use case motivated changes" are already taken care of

Author: I think identifying that case is useful and do not see a disadvantage of adding this particular case. It gives an idea of the variance that can capture a patch release

Reviewer 3: > I think identifying that case is useful 

Do you think of `Use case motivated changes` as a case? I understood it as a summary for `any other cases that we cannot exhaustively specify here because we don't know what will happen` --> thus relaxing the strictness of WHEN a patch release can occur.

> do not see a disadvantage of adding this particular case

I see it as a repetition to the end of the introductory sentence ` ... , not limited to the following examples:`

> It gives an idea of the variance that can capture a patch release

I think to give an idea about the variance, the cases would have to be concrete: like in the examples before "use case motivated changes" ... whereas `use case motivated changes` is more or less saying: "any case"

Reviewer 2: Maybe it would help to just give an example of a use case motivated change. If I recall correctly, in @effigies suggestion he pointed out that sometimes use case changes might be time sensitive. Maybe an example would be a new data sharing initiative would like to release BIDS-compliant data, and they'd like to include additional metadata than what's already available in the spec.

Reviewer: Yes, the basic situation is that some non-BEP-scale changes are proposed because somebody has a dataset that is *almost* BIDS but needs a clarification or some small addition. If we release, then they can say that their dataset conforms to BIDS version 1.x.y, so it's nice not to delay too much.

To steal some of your language...

```suggestion
- A metadata field or file type is added at the request of a curator attempting to release BIDS-compliant data
```

> - Resources around BIDS have been added or updated (e.g., BEP updates)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Links or information in the specification are no longer accurate, *e.g.* if a BEP document is added or moved
```

> - The rendering of the [specification](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) has been enhanced

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The rendering of the [specification](https://bids-specification.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) has changed
```

> The decision for a patch release will fall onto the judgement call of the maintainer working group. 

Reviewer: I think we were converging, above, that it's all discretionary, so we can either drop this, or make it a bit more of a statement of guiding principle. Here's one that is perhaps overly informal:

```suggestion
Ultimately, all releases are a matter of maintainer discretion, but patch release frequency should
balance community needs for stability and responsiveness.
```

# Release Guidelines

This document captures guidelines to follow when considering a new release of the BIDS specification.

## Background
BIDS has generally followed a semantic versioning (semver) approach.
The canonical semver text can be found at [https://semver.org/](https://semver.org/), and an adaptation to documents can be found at [https://semverdoc.org/](https://semver.org/).
A specification falls somewhere between these two, as documentation does not require
backwards compatibility, while software has notions of bugs and features which do not
map to the reasons for updating a specification.

In both cases, edition numbers are specified as MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH, and the difference is in the rules for incrementing each edition number.

In BIDS, we have considered a major release version (the next being 2.0.0) to indicate

> backwards-incompatible changes, while minor and patch releases must be backwards compatible.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
backwards-incompatible changes, while minor and patch releases must be backwards compatible.

```

adding a blank line between last paragraph and next heading

## Guidelines

Once a decision for a release has been established, the rules of [decision-making](DECISION-MAKING.md)

> govern the mechanism of doing the release, *i.e.*, waiting 5 business days to merge.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
govern the mechanism of doing the release, *i.e.*, waiting 5 business days and obtain approval by at least one maintainer to merge.
```

as taken from https://github.com/bids-standard/bids-specification/blob/master/DECISION-MAKING.md

Reviewer: Verb agreement and wrapping the line.

```suggestion
govern the mechanism of doing the release, *i.e.*, waiting 5 business days and obtaining
the approval of at least one maintainer before merging.
```

# Release Guidelines

This document captures guidelines to follow when considering a new release of the BIDS specification.

## Background
BIDS has generally followed a semantic versioning (semver) approach.

> The canonical semver text can be found at [https://semver.org/](https://semver.org/), and an adaptation to documents can be found at [https://semverdoc.org/](https://semver.org/).

Reviewer: The second link was targeting the wrong place, but Markdown should render bare URLs just fine.

```suggestion
The canonical semver text can be found at https://semver.org/, and an adaptation to documents can be found at https://semverdoc.org/.
```
